proposal: add more detail view implement proposal (#8416)
pingcap/tidb: docs/design/2018-10-24-view-support.md

- Discussion at: https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/7974

## Abstract
This proposal proposes to implement basic VIEW feature in TiDB, aimed to make SQL easier to write. VIEW's advanced feature would be considered later.

## Background
A database view is a searchable object in a database that is defined by a query. Though a view doesn’t store data, some refer to a VIEW as "virtual tables", and you can query a view like you can query a table. A view can combine data from two or more tables, using joins, and also just contain a subset of information. This makes them convenient to abstract, or hide, complicated queries.

Below is a visual depiction of a view:
  ![AnatomyOfAview](imgs/view.png)   
  reference from https://www.essentialsql.com/what-is-a-relational-database-view/
  
A view is created from a query using the "`CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW`" command. In the example below we are creating a PopularBooks view based on a query which selects all Books that have the IsPopular field checked. Following is the query:

> ```mysql

Reviewer: ```sql
CREATE OR replace VIEW popularbooks 
AS 
  SELECT isbn, 
         title, 
         author, 
         publishdate 
  FROM   books 
  WHERE  ispopular = 1 
```
formated by http://www.dpriver.com/pp/sqlformat.htm

CREATE OR REPLACE 
  VIEW PopularBooks AS 
    SELECT ISBN, Title, Author,PublishDate FROM Books WHERE IsPopular=1
```  

Once a view is created, you can use it as you query any table in a `SELECT` statement. For example, to list all the popular book titles ordered by an author, you could write:  
```mysql
SELECT Author, Title FROM PopularBooks ORDER BY Author
```

In general you can use any of the SELECT clauses, such as GROUP BY, in a select statement containing a view.

## Proposal

> This proposal is prepared to implement basic VIEW feature, which contains "CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW", "SELECT FROM VIEW", "DROP VIEW" and "SHOW TABLE STATUS". All other unimplemented feature will list as compatibility and discuss later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This proposal is prepared to implement the basic VIEW feature, which contains `CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW`, `SELECT FROM VIEW`, `DROP VIEW` and `SHOW TABLE STATUS`. All other unimplemented features will be listed for compatibility and discussed later.
```

> This proposal is prepared to implement the basic VIEW feature, which contains `CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW`, `SELECT FROM VIEW`, `DROP VIEW` and `SHOW TABLE STATUS`. All other unimplemented features will be listed for compatibility and discussed later.

Reviewer: This proposal is prepared to implement the basic VIEW feature, which contains:
- `CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW`
- `SELECT FROM VIEW`
- `DROP VIEW`
- `SHOW TABLE STATUS`

> We introduce `ViewInfo` to store the metadata for view and add an attribute `*ViewInfo` which named `View` to TableInfo. If `TableInfo.ViewInfo` != nil, then this `TableInfo` is a base table, else this `TableInfo` is a view.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We introduce `ViewInfo` to store the metadata for view and add an attribute `*ViewInfo` which named `View` to TableInfo. If `TableInfo.ViewInfo` != nil, then this `TableInfo` is a base table, otherwise this `TableInfo` is a view:
```

> We introduce `ViewInfo` to store the metadata for view and add an attribute `*ViewInfo` which named `View` to TableInfo. If `TableInfo.ViewInfo` != nil, then this `TableInfo` is a base table, otherwise this `TableInfo` is a view:

Reviewer 3: `TableInfo.ViewInfo` != nil, then this `tableinfo` is a view.

```
type ViewInfo struct {
	Algorithm   ViewAlgorithm    `json:"view_algorithm"`
	Definer     UserIdentity     `json:"view_definer"`  

> 	Security    ViewSecurity     `json:"view_security""`

Reviewer 4: remove the duplicate " at the end

Author: Done

	SelectStmt  string           `json:"view_select"`
	CheckOption ViewCheckOption  `json:"view_checkoption"`
	Cols        []model.CIStr    `json:"view_cols"`
}
```
* [Algorithm](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-algorithms.html)  

>     The view SQL AlGORITHM characteristic. The value is one of UNDEFINED、MERGE OR TEMPTABLE, if no ALGORITHM clause is present, UNDEFINED is the default algorithm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The view SQL AlGORITHM characteristic. The value is one of UNDEFINED, MERGE OR TEMPTABLE. If no ALGORITHM clause is present, UNDEFINED is the default algorithm.
```

>     The view SQL AlGORITHM characteristic. The value is one of UNDEFINED, MERGE OR TEMPTABLE. If no ALGORITHM clause is present, UNDEFINED is the default algorithm.

Reviewer: The value should be one of the `UNDEFINED`, `MERGE` and `TEMPTABLE`

>     We will implement Algorithm=MERGE only now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Currently, we will only implement Algorithm=MERGE.
```

>     Currently, we will only implement Algorithm=MERGE.

Reviewer: implement the `MERGE` algorithm.

* [Definer](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html)  
    The account of the user who created the view, in 'user_name'@'host_name' format.
* [Security](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html)  
    The view SQL SECURITY characteristic. The value is one of DEFINER or INVOKER.
* [CheckOption](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-check-option.html)  

>     The WITH CHECK OPTION clause can be given for an updatable view to prevent inserts to rows for which the WHERE clause in the select_statement is not true. It also prevents updates to rows for which the WHERE clause is true but the update would cause it to be not true (in other words, it prevents visible rows from being updated to nonvisible rows).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The WITH CHECK OPTION clause can be given to an updatable view to prevent inserts to rows for which the WHERE clause in the select_statement is not true. It also prevents updates to rows for which the WHERE clause is true but the update would cause it to be not true (in other words, it prevents visible rows from being updated to nonvisible rows).  
```

>     The WITH CHECK OPTION clause can be given to an updatable view to prevent inserts to rows for which the WHERE clause in the select_statement is not true. It also prevents updates to rows for which the WHERE clause is true but the update would cause it to be not true (in other words, it prevents visible rows from being updated to nonvisible rows).  

Reviewer: `WITH CHECK OPTION`

Reviewer: please use ` to wrap other sql key words as well.

    In a WITH CHECK OPTION clause for an updatable view, the LOCAL and CASCADED keywords determine the scope of check testing when the view is defined in terms of another view. When neither keyword is given, the default is CASCADED.
* SelectStmt  

>     This string is the origin select sql statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This string is the origin `SELECT` SQL statement.
```

* Cols  
    This model.CIStr array stores view's column alias names.
* TableInfo.Columns  

>     `TableInfo.Columns` only stores view's column origin names, if no alias name specific, it stores the same values as `ViewInfo.Cols`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `TableInfo.Columns` only stores view's column origin names. If no alias name is specified, it stores the same values as `ViewInfo.Cols`.
```

Reviewer 2: "if no alias name specific" is a little bit confusing and weird in grammar. Please start it in a new sentence and make it clear :)

 
## Rationale
1. Create VIEW  

>    This proposal only support following grammar to create view:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This proposal only supports the following grammar to create view:
```

   ```
    CREATE
        [OR REPLACE]
        [ALGORITHM = {UNDEFINED | MERGE | TEMPTABLE}]
        [DEFINER = { user | CURRENT_USER }]
        [SQL SECURITY { DEFINER | INVOKER }]
        VIEW view_name [(column_list)]
        AS select_statement
        [WITH [CASCADED | LOCAL] CHECK OPTION]
    ```

>     1. Parse the create view statement and build a logical plan for select cause part. If any grammar error occurs, return errors to parser.   

Reviewer 3: `for select cause part` -> `for select clause part`.

>     2. Examine view definer's privileges. Definer should own both `CREATE_VIEW_PRIV` privilege and base table's `SELECT` privilege. We will resue `CREATE_PRIV` privilege when implement `CREATE VIEW` feature and will support `CREATE_VIEW_PRIV` check later.  

Reviewer 3: `resue` -> `reuse`.

>     3. Examine create view statement. If the ViewFieldList cause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt cause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns`.

Reviewer 3: `cause` -> `clause`.

>     3. Examine create view statement, If ViewFieldList cause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt cause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns` .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. Examine create view statement. If the ViewFieldList cause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt cause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns`.
```

2. DROP VIEW  

>   Implement `DROP VIEW` grammar, and delete the existing view tableinfo object. This function should reuse `DROP TABLE` code logical

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Implement `DROP VIEW` grammar, and delete the existing view tableinfo object. This function should reuse `DROP TABLE` code logic.
```

3. SELECT FROM VIEW  

>     In function `func (b *PlanBuilder) buildDataSource(tn *ast.TableName) (LogicalPlan, error)`, if `tn *ast.TableName` is a view, then we build a select `LogicalPlan` from view's `SelectStmt` string. But this solution meet a problem,here is the example:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In function `func (b *PlanBuilder) buildDataSource(tn *ast.TableName) (LogicalPlan, error)`, if `tn *ast.TableName` is a view, then we build a select `LogicalPlan` from view's `SelectStmt` string. But this solution meets a problem, and here is the example:  
```

    ```mysql
       create table t(a int,b int);
       create view v like select * from t;
       select * from t;
    ```
    Once we query from view `v`, database will rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from t`**.
    But, if we alter the schema of t like this:
    ```mysql
       drop table t;
       create table t(c int,d int);
    ```

>     Executing `select * from v` now is equivalent to **`select c as c, d as d from t`**.The result of this query will be incompatible with the character of VIEW that a VIEW should be "frozen" after defined.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Executing `select * from v` now is equivalent to **`select c as c, d as d from t`**. The result of this query will be incompatible with the character of VIEW that a VIEW should be "frozen" after being defined.
```

>     In order to solve the problem describe above, we must build a `Projection` at the top of original select's `LogicalPlan`, just like we rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from (select * from t)`**.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In order to solve the problem described above, we must build a `Projection` at the top of original select's `LogicalPlan`, just like we rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from (select * from t)`**.  
```

>     This is a temporary fix and we will implement TiDB to rewrite sql with replace all wildcard finally.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This is a temporary fix and we will implement TiDB to rewrite SQL with replacing all wildcard finally.  
```

4. Show table status  

>   Modify `SHOW TABLE STATUS` function to support show view status, and we use this command to check if `CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` operation is successful. To reuse `SHOW TABLE STAUS` code logic is preferred.

Reviewer 4: s/ STAUS/ STATUS

>   Modify `SHOW TABLE STATUS` function to support show view status, and we use this command to check if `CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` operation is successful. To reuse `SHOW TABLE STAUS` code logical is perferred.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Modify `SHOW TABLE STATUS` function to support show view status, and we use this command to check if `CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` operation is successful. To reuse `SHOW TABLE STAUS` code logic is preferred.
```

## Compatibility

> Add TiDB support basic view feature without affecting other existing functions, and makes TiDB more compatible with MySQL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add TiDB support for the basic VIEW feature without affecting other existing functions, and make TiDB more compatible with MySQL.
```

    3. Examine create view statement, If ViewFieldList cause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt cause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns` .
2. DROP VIEW  
  Implement `DROP VIEW` grammar, and delete the existing view tableinfo object. This function should reuse `DROP TABLE` code logical
3. SELECT FROM VIEW  
    In function `func (b *PlanBuilder) buildDataSource(tn *ast.TableName) (LogicalPlan, error)`, if `tn *ast.TableName` is a view, then we build a select `LogicalPlan` from view's `SelectStmt` string. But this solution meet a problem,here is the example:  
    ```mysql
       create table t(a int,b int);
       create view v like select * from t;
       select * from t;
    ```
    Once we query from view `v`, database will rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from t`**

>     

Reviewer 4: Add a line here:
But, if we alter the schema of `t` like this:

    ```mysql
       drop table t;
       create table t(c int,d int);
    ```

>     If we rebuild table `v` from sql above and query from view `v` again, database will rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select c as c,d as d from t`**

Reviewer 4: change line 92~93 to:
Executing `select * from v` now is equivalent to `select c as c, d as d from t`.The result of this query will be incompatible with the character of VIEW that a VIEW should be "frozen" after defined.

```  

Once a view is created, you can use it as you query any table in a `SELECT` statement. For example, to list all the popular book titles ordered by an author, you could write:  
```mysql
SELECT Author, Title FROM PopularBooks ORDER BY Author
```

In general you can use any of the SELECT clauses, such as GROUP BY, in a select statement containing a view.

## Proposal
This proposal is prepared to implement basic VIEW feature, which contains "CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW", "SELECT FROM VIEW", "DROP VIEW" and "SHOW TABLE STATUS". All other unimplemented feature will list as compatibility and discuss later.
and we mainly introduce new struct named `ViewInfo` to store view's metadata.

## Rationale
`VIEW` is just a `TableInfo` object store with a `ViewInfo` struct, and only supports limited DDL operations.  
Here is `ViewInfo`'s attributes and detail attribute explaination:
```
type ViewInfo struct {
	Algorithm   AlgorithmType    `json:"view_algorithm"`
	Definer     string           `json:"view_definer"`  
	Security    SecurityType     `json:"view_security""`
	SelectStmt  string           `json:"view_select"`
	CheckOption CheckOption      `json:"view_checkoption"`

> 	Cols        []string         `json:"view_cols"`

Reviewer 4: Why do we need this?
Seems duplicate with TableInfo.ColumnName.

Author: Use TableInfo.ColumnName to store origin column names, and use View.Cols to store column alias name

Reviewer 4: s/Cols []string/ Cols []model.CIStr

> 	IsUpdatable bool             `json:"view_isUpdatable"`

Reviewer 4: We do not need this now.

    We will implement Algorithm=UNDEFINED only now.
* Definer  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html  
    The account of the user who created the view, in 'user_name'@'host_name' format.
* SecurityType  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html  
    The view SQL SECURITY characteristic. The value is one of DEFINER or INVOKER.
* CheckOptionType  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-check-option.html  
    The WITH CHECK OPTION clause can be given for an updatable view to prevent inserts to rows for which the WHERE clause in the select_statement is not true. It also prevents updates to rows for which the WHERE clause is true but the update would cause it to be not true (in other words, it prevents visible rows from being updated to nonvisible rows).  
    In a WITH CHECK OPTION clause for an updatable view, the LOCAL and CASCADED keywords determine the scope of check testing when the view is defined in terms of another view. When neither keyword is given, the default is CASCADED.
* IsUpdatable  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-updatability.html  
    This parameter mark if this view is updatable.
* SelectStmt

>     This string is the select sql statement after sql rewriter.

Reviewer 4: 1. We only store the origin sql of create_view now.
2. Add an example here to show the expected format.

* Cols
    This string array is the view's column alias names.
* TableInfo.Columns
    `TableInfo.Columns` only stores view's column origin names, if no alias name specific, it stores the same values as `ViewInfo.Cols`.

We add `ViewInfo` struct point which named `View` to `TableInfo`. If `&View` is nil, then this tableinfo is a base table, else this tableinfo is a view. 
 
Let me describe more details about the view DDL operation:
1. Create VIEW  
   This proposal only support following grammar to create view:
   ```
    CREATE
        [OR REPLACE]
        [ALGORITHM = {UNDEFINED | MERGE | TEMPTABLE}]
        [DEFINER = { user | CURRENT_USER }]
        [SQL SECURITY { DEFINER | INVOKER }]
        VIEW view_name [(column_list)]
        AS select_statement
        [WITH [CASCADED | LOCAL] CHECK OPTION]
    ```
    1. Parse the create view statement and build a logical plan for select cause part. If any grammar error occurs, return errors to parser.   

>     2. Examine view definer's privileges. Definer should own both `CREATE_VIEW` and base table's `SELECT` privileges.  

Reviewer 4: We should also mention two things here:
1. TiDB only supports CRATE_PRIV which do not distinguish CREATE_VIEW and CREATE_TABLE now.
2. SELECT_PRIV is checked during buildLogicalPlan already.

Author: CREATE_VIEW priv support should be implement as well.

    3. Examine create view statement, If ViewFieldList cause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt cause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns` .
2. Drop a view  
  Implement `DROP VIEW` grammar, and delete the existing view tableinfo object. This function should reuse `DROP TABLE` code logical
3. Select from a view  

>   3.1 In function `func (b *PlanBuilder) buildDataSource(tn *ast.TableName) (LogicalPlan, error)`, if `tn *ast.TableName` is a view, then we build a select `LogicalPlan` from view's `SelectStmt` string. But this solution meet a problem,for example:  

Reviewer 4: s/ if `tn *ast.TableName` is a view,/ if TableInfo.ViewInfo != nil

>     1.  First we create a table with statement like `create table t(a int,b int)`

Reviewer 4: We do not need to describe the process like line1~line6.

This is more readable.
``` sql
create table t(a int, b int);
create view....
select ....
```

    This is a temporary fix and we will implement TiDB to rewrite sql with replace all wildcard finally.
4. Show table status
  Modify `SHOW TABLE STATUS` function to support show view status, and we use this command to check if `CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` operation is successful. To reuse `SHOW TABLE STAUS` code logical is perferred.

## Compatibility
Add TiDB support basic view feature without affecting other existing functions, and makes TiDB more compatible with MySQL.

## Implementation
|Action  |Priority|Deadline|Notes|
| ------ | ------ | ------ |-----|
|`CREATE [OR REPLACE] VIEW view_name [(column_list)] AS select_statement`|P1|2019/01/15|This task must be done before any other tasks.|
|Add parser to parse ViewAlgorithm|P1|2019/01/15|--|
|`SHOW TABLE STATUS`|P1|2019/01/30|--|
|`DROP VIEW viewname`|P1|2019/01/30|--|
|`SELECT … FROM VIEW`|P1|2019/03/10|--|
|Add some test cases for CreateView and Select … From View(port from MySQL test)|P1|2019/03/30|--|
|UPDATE VIEW|P2| |Difficult|
|INSERT VIEW|P2| |Difficult, dependent on UPDATE VIEW)|

> |SHOW CREATE [VIEW &#124; TABLE]|P2| | |

Reviewer 4: We should add a task like `support CREATE_VIEW_PRIV` check with priority P2.

Author: Done

```mysql
SELECT Author, Title FROM PopularBooks ORDER BY Author
```

In general you can use any of the SELECT clauses, such as GROUP BY, in a select statement containing a view.

## Proposal
This proposal is prepared to implement basic VIEW feature, which contains "CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW", "SELECT FROM VIEW", "DROP VIEW" and "SHOW TABLE STATUS". All other unimplemented feature will list as compatibility and discuss later.
and we mainly introduce new struct named `ViewInfo` to store view's metadata.

## Rationale
`VIEW` is just a `TableInfo` object store with a `ViewInfo` struct, and only supports limited DDL operations.  
Here is `ViewInfo`'s attributes and detail attribute explaination:
```
type ViewInfo struct {
	Algorithm   AlgorithmType    `json:"view_algorithm"`
	Definer     string           `json:"view_definer"`  
	Security    SecurityType     `json:"view_security""`
	SelectStmt  string           `json:"view_select"`
	CheckOption CheckOption      `json:"view_checkoption"`
	Cols        []string         `json:"view_cols"`
}
```

> * AlgorithmType  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-algorithms.html   

Reviewer 4: use syntax:
\[AlgorithmType\](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-algorithms.html)

    The view SQL AlGORITHM characteristic. The value is one of UNDEFINED、MERGE OR TEMPTABLE, if no ALGORITHM clause is present, UNDEFINED is the default algorithm.

>     We will implement Algorithm=UNDEFINED only now.

Reviewer 4: We will implement MERGE not UNDEFINED, and regard UNDEFINED as MERGE now.
As the MySQL manual shows:
```
If no ALGORITHM clause is present, UNDEFINED is the default algorithm prior to MySQL 5.7.6. As of 5.7.6, the default algorithm is determined by the value of the derived_merge flag of the optimizer_switch system variable. For additional discussion, see Section 8.2.2.3, “Optimizing Derived Tables and View References”.
```

* Definer  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html  
    The account of the user who created the view, in 'user_name'@'host_name' format.
* SecurityType  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html  
    The view SQL SECURITY characteristic. The value is one of DEFINER or INVOKER.
* CheckOptionType  ref https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-check-option.html  
    The WITH CHECK OPTION clause can be given for an updatable view to prevent inserts to rows for which the WHERE clause in the select_statement is not true. It also prevents updates to rows for which the WHERE clause is true but the update would cause it to be not true (in other words, it prevents visible rows from being updated to nonvisible rows).  
    In a WITH CHECK OPTION clause for an updatable view, the LOCAL and CASCADED keywords determine the scope of check testing when the view is defined in terms of another view. When neither keyword is given, the default is CASCADED.
* SelectStmt
    This string is the origin select sql statement.
* Cols

>     This string array is the view's column alias names.

Reviewer 4: Not string array.

We add `ViewInfo` struct point which named `View` to `TableInfo`, if `TableInfo.ViewInfo` != nil, then this tableinfo is a base table, else this tableinfo is a view. 
 
Let me describe more details about the view DDL operation:
1. Create VIEW  
   This proposal only support following grammar to create view:
   ```
    CREATE
        [OR REPLACE]
        [ALGORITHM = {UNDEFINED | MERGE | TEMPTABLE}]
        [DEFINER = { user | CURRENT_USER }]
        [SQL SECURITY { DEFINER | INVOKER }]
        VIEW view_name [(column_list)]
        AS select_statement
        [WITH [CASCADED | LOCAL] CHECK OPTION]
    ```
    1. Parse the create view statement and build a logical plan for select cause part. If any grammar error occurs, return errors to parser.   
    2. Examine view definer's privileges. Definer should own both `CREATE_VIEW` and base table's `SELECT` privileges.  
    3. Examine create view statement, If ViewFieldList cause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt cause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns` .

> 2. Drop a view  

Reviewer 4: s/ Drop a view/ DROP VIEW

  Implement `DROP VIEW` grammar, and delete the existing view tableinfo object. This function should reuse `DROP TABLE` code logical

> 3. Select from a view  

Reviewer 4: s/ Select from a view/ SELECT FROM VIEW

    ```mysql
       create table t(a int,b int);
       create view v like select * from t;
       select * from t;
    ```
    Once we query from view `v`, database will rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from t`**.
    But, if we alter the schema of t like this:
    ```mysql
       drop table t;
       create table t(c int,d int);
    ```
    Executing `select * from v` now is equivalent to **`select c as c, d as d from t`**. The result of this query will be incompatible with the character of VIEW that a VIEW should be "frozen" after being defined.
    In order to solve the problem described above, we must build a `Projection` at the top of original select's `LogicalPlan`, just like we rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from (select * from t)`**.  
    This is a temporary fix and we will implement TiDB to rewrite SQL with replacing all wildcard finally.  
4. Show table status  

>   Modify `SHOW TABLE STATUS` function to support show view status, and we use this command to check if `CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` operation is successful. To reuse `SHOW TABLE STATUS` code logical is preferred.

Reviewer 4: s/ code logical/ code logic?

```go
type ViewInfo struct {
	Algorithm   ViewAlgorithm    `json:"view_algorithm"`
	Definer     UserIdentity     `json:"view_definer"`  
	Security    ViewSecurity     `json:"view_security"`
	SelectStmt  string           `json:"view_select"`
	CheckOption ViewCheckOption  `json:"view_checkoption"`
	Cols        []model.CIStr    `json:"view_cols"`
}
```
* [Algorithm](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-algorithms.html)  
    The view SQL `AlGORITHM` characteristic. The value should be one of `UNDEFINED`, `MERGE` OR `TEMPTABLE`. If no `ALGORITHM` clause is present, `UNDEFINED` is the default algorithm.
    Currently, we will only implement Algorithm=MERGE algorithm.
* [Definer](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html)  
    The account of the user who created the view, in `'user_name'@'host_name'` format.
* [Security](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/create-view.html)  
    The view SQL `SECURITY` characteristic. The value is one of `DEFINER` or `INVOKER`.
* [CheckOption](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/view-check-option.html)  

>     The `WITH CHECK OPTION` clause can be given to an updatable view to prevent inserts to rows for which the WHERE clause in the select_statement is not true. It also prevents updates to rows for which the WHERE clause is true but the update would cause it to be not true (in other words, it prevents visible rows from being updated to nonvisible rows).  

Author: "updates to rows" would be more precisely.

* SelectStmt  
    This string is the origin `SELECT` SQL statement.
* Cols  
    This model.CIStr array stores view's column alias names.
* TableInfo.Columns  
    `TableInfo.Columns` only stores view's column origin names.
 
## Rationale
1. Create VIEW  
   This proposal only supports the following grammar to create view:
   ```mysql
    CREATE
        [OR REPLACE]
        [ALGORITHM = {UNDEFINED | MERGE | TEMPTABLE}]
        [DEFINER = { user | CURRENT_USER }]
        [SQL SECURITY { DEFINER | INVOKER }]
        VIEW view_name [(column_list)]
        AS select_statement
        [WITH [CASCADED | LOCAL] CHECK OPTION]
    ```
    1. Parse the create view statement and build a logical plan for select clause part. If any grammar error occurs, return errors to parser.   
    2. Examine view definer's privileges. Definer should own both `CREATE_VIEW_PRIV` privilege and base table's `SELECT` privilege. We will reuse `CREATE_PRIV` privilege when implement `CREATE VIEW` feature and will support `CREATE_VIEW_PRIV` check later.  

>     3. Examine create view statement. If the ViewFieldList clause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from SelectStmt clause. Otherwise check len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt). And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Examine create view statement. If the `ViewFieldList` clause part is empty, then we should generate view column names from the `SelectStmt` clause. Otherwise check `len(ViewFieldList) == len(Columns from SelectStmt)`. And then we save column names to `TableInfo.Columns`.
```

       create table t(a int,b int);
       create view v like select * from t;
       select * from t;
    ```
    Once we query from view `v`, database will rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from t`**.
    But, if we alter the schema of t like this:
    ```mysql
       drop table t;
       create table t(c int,d int);
    ```
    Executing `select * from v` now is equivalent to **`select c as c, d as d from t`**. The result of this query will be incompatible with the character of VIEW that a VIEW should be "frozen" after being defined.
    In order to solve the problem described above, we must build a `Projection` at the top of original select's `LogicalPlan`, just like we rewrite view's `SelectStmt` from `select * from t` into **`select a as a,b as b from (select * from t)`**.  
    This is a temporary fix and we will implement TiDB to rewrite SQL with replacing all wildcard finally.  
4. Show table status  
  Modify `SHOW TABLE STATUS` function to support show view status, and we use this command to check if `CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` operation is successful. To reuse `SHOW TABLE STATUS` code logic is preferred.

## Compatibility

> Add TiDB support for the basic VIEW feature without affecting other existing functions, and make TiDB more compatible with MySQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support the basic VIEW functionality without affecting other existing functionalities in TiDB. And make TiDB be more compatible with MySQL.
```

## Implementation

> |Action  |Priority|Deadline|Notes|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the work items list:
|Action  |Priority|Deadline|Notes|
```

4. logical_plan_builder.go  
Every time we make a `SELECT` statement within a view, modify the `buildDataSource` function to rewrite the view table to select `LogicalPlan`.

## SubTask Schedule
|Action  |Priority|Deadline|Notes|
| ------ | ------ | ------ |-----|

> |`CREATE [OR REPLACE] VIEW view_name [(column_list)] AS select_statement`|P1|2019/01/15|后续的所有工作都依赖这项|

Reviewer 3: Better use English here.

Author: Done
